Alright, so this session we're going to
carry on with the topics that we're,
or not with the topics,
but we're going to carry on the track
that we were talking about earlier,
which is how do you make a
great application on Mac OS X.
And if you remember in
Session 111 yesterday,
I had at the beginning the good, better,
best scenarios for adopting Aqua.
And in the best scenario,
or even in the better,
we started to talk about
things like Help Tags,
and doing lists,
making lists appear properly on Mac OS X.
And doing the right thing with the Doc.
So one of the very basic things
that every application should do
is respect the Doc's position,
right?
And not size windows behind that.
We're going to talk about
that in this session.
Some of the other things you might do,
some applications might do with the Doc,
is animate the Doc icon
or the application icon.
And we're going to talk about
some of that material here.
So to go in depth on this stuff,
I'd like to bring
Guy Fullerton back on stage.
from the High-Level Toolbox team.
Guy, go for it.
All right.
Well, thankfully,
I'm not given the demo for this one,
so I can't screw another one up.
That's me!
John mentioned I'm going to
talk about a lot of things.
Yesterday at Ed's session,
we talked about new features
in the Window and Menu Manager,
and I'm going to talk about a bunch of
new features in the Control Manager,
as well as sort of a toolbox potpourri.
We're going to touch on Doc issues,
DataBrowser, Help Tags,
and a few other things.
So to dive right in, like I said,
the Control Manager is moving forward.
We've added a bunch of
new functionality to it.
The most obvious piece of
functionality is Aqua widget animation.
When you create a push-button control,
it flashes.
When you create a progress bar control,
the fill moves to let the user know
that the progress is really happening.
Some other controls that we've
had on previous systems that
animate are the Chasing Arrows
Control and the Edit Text Control.
Those animated on previous systems.
They animate today on Mac OS X.
But the difference is that
all of these controls animate
via a Carbon event timer.
What this means is the controls
will animate automatically behind
your back whenever you're sort
of in the event loop sleeping.
If you got a chance to see Ed's
Carbon Event session the other day,
you'll know what I'm talking about.
If you didn't get a chance to see it,
it's important that you try to
track down the video for that later.
It's got some key concepts
with respect to use of timers.
But fundamentally what this means
is that you no longer need to
call idle controls for the system
controls under Aqua on Mac OS X.
They're going to do their animation
automatically via a timer,
so you don't need to be calling
WaitNextEvent with some small timeout
just so you can call idle controls.
In fact,
that's going to be bad because your
app's going to be using up a lot of
the CPU and you don't want to do that.
Now all of the controls will begin to
animate as soon as they've drawn once.
We do this so that we can get the
proper look as soon as a window appears.
We don't want to begin
animating a push button,
for instance,
right after the window appears
before you get the update event,
because you'll see the button show up
before the rest of the window paints.
So what we do is we actually delay
the beginning of the animation until
after the control draws normally once.
And for some of the controls,
particularly the progress
bar and the chasing arrows,
we offer a way to start
and stop the animation,
if that's useful to your users.
You might want to say that a
download's paused for some reason,
or there's a network lag,
and so you want to stop spinning
the arrows for that reason.
And you can do that via
the Set Control Data API.
Set Control Data takes a control and a
tag for the type of data you want to set,
and in these particular cases you pass
in the KControlProgressBarAnimatingTag
or KControlChasingArrowsAnimatingTag,
as well as a Boolean value for
whether the control is set or not.
So you can set the control to be set,
and then you can set
the control to be set.
value for whether or not
you want it to animate.
So you can start and stop it that way.
Push Buttons - the way you start
and stop them from animating
is by marking them as default.
There's a bunch of different
ways you can do that.
The preferred way is
Set Window Default Button.
This is a new API for Carbon.
Essentially,
what it does for you is it marks a
particular control as the default
control for a given window.
And the coolest thing about this is if
that default control is a push button,
the push button will begin animating.
The other benefit of Set Window Default
Button is that it also tells
the Carbon Event Manager which
control to hit when the user
presses the Return or Enter key.
So if you can use
Set Window Default Button,
by all means, go ahead and do it.
It's going to get you the most free
functionality now and in the future.
Now, an API that you're probably familiar
with already is Set Dialog Default Item.
If you use the Dialog Manager a lot,
you use this API to tell the Dialog
Manager which the default button is.
And of course, when you call this API,
we will start the default
button animating appropriately.
And if neither of those
really serve your needs,
if you want more fine-grained
control over whether or
not a button is animating,
you can use Set Control Data to toggle
on or off the animation as you wish with
the K-Control Push Button default tag.
We've added a number of
new widgets for Aqua,
and you can see all of
them up on the screen.
I'll go through them sort of one by one
and tell you what they're useful for.
We have a rounded bevel button.
You can see those down at the
bottom of the window snapshot there.
It's just a different
look for a bevel button.
By default,
your bevel buttons will come up with
the square look that you're used to,
and that's so you can continue using
the same sort of grouped bevel button
APIs where they're real close together.
But you might have some needs
where you really want to
draw a rounded bevel button.
And the way you go about that is
by using a cool feature we added
to the Mac OS X bevel button,
whereby you can change the
appearance of the bevel button and
essentially tell it which Appearance
Manager theme button to draw itself as.
So you can create a bevel
button control and say,
"Draw in a rounded fashion," or "Draw
in a normal push button fashion,"
or "Draw in some other fashion."
So the bevel button is sort of
visually polymorphic in that way.
We also offer a round button
that you can see up in the top
left-hand corner of the screenshot.
This is used for a number of reasons.
Most prominently,
it's the new Help button that we want
in our Aqua user interface guidelines.
I'm going to talk specifically
about how to get that a little
bit later in some gotchas with
respect to Mac OS X and Mac OS 9.
We also use that for the Back button
and the Home button in things
like Sherlock and the Help Viewer.
We have a Relevance Bar as well,
which is essentially just a variant
of the Progress Bar Control.
It lets you do relevance ranking.
Sherlock uses this.
If you were using the
Progress Bar Control in Mac OS 9
in Carbon to do a relevance rank,
that's not going to give you the right
appearance under Aqua on Mac OS X.
So you should really begin using
the Relevance Bar under Mac OS X.
We also have a Disclosure Button,
which is not on the screenshot.
That's most prominently used in
a Navigation Services dialog.
It's useful for controlling
whether a window resizes or shrinks
back to show you more details.
Something that's not
exactly new for Aqua,
but that I wanted to point out,
is the fact that we still
have four-sided tabs.
Platinum has supported four-sided tabs.
You can have tabs on the top, right,
bottom, and left of your control.
But earlier releases of Mac OS X didn't
support the full functionality.
I think we only supported
top tabs for a while.
Well, they're all back into the
GM release of Mac OS X,
so you can continue using
them on all four sides.
Of course, we have appearance primitives
to draw all of these widgets.
So if you don't feel
comfortable using the controls,
or you have very specialized needs,
you can call the Appearance
Manager to draw any of these for you.
Another request we got when we came
out with the Aqua User Interface
Guidelines was we need smaller
controls or differently sized controls.
Now the normal controls are
basically platinum sized,
but there are certain cases in your
user interface where you've got a small
palette or some other tiny piece of
screen real estate where you need to draw
a bunch of small check boxes or small
push buttons or something like that.
And the Aqua widgets are
just too big for those cases.
So what we did is we implemented
some small versions of various
system controls so that you could
get the right look under Aqua.
A lot of applications out there had
small controls already on Mac OS 9.
That's because they
implemented them themselves.
They wrote custom C-Defs or
maybe they weren't C-Defs.
They just wrote custom
code to draw these things.
And of course those are going
to look really ugly under Aqua.
So if you're using your own
hand rolled small controls,
you want to begin using the
system supported smaller controls.
There are four basic
sizes of controls now.
Like I mentioned before,
the Platinum metrics
are the normal sizes.
This allows you to have a window that's
laid out and have it look just fine
on Platinum and just fine on Mac OS X.
Some controls,
like the checkbox and the radio button,
support a smaller size.
Others, like the progress bar,
support a larger size.
The progress bar is an interesting case,
actually,
because the default progress bar size,
being the same size
as it was in Platinum,
is good for your layout purposes.
But unfortunately,
the default size for the progress
bar does not match the Acquia
User Interface guidelines.
The guidelines say you
should use a larger one.
So in order to match the guidelines,
you need to set the size of your progress
bar control to be the large size.
The fourth size we support is
actually an automatic size.
And we've actually
supported this for a while,
just not a case.
We've also supported this explicitly.
Certain controls, like the scroll bar,
vary how they draw depending on
how wide or narrow you make the
control rectangle themselves.
If your scroll bar is
about 15 or 16 pixels wide,
we're going to draw the
normal size scroll bar.
But as soon as you drop it
below a certain threshold,
which I think is about 12 pixels,
we begin drawing a narrower,
small scroll bar.
So the scroll bar is one of the ones
that can support an automatic size.
Now, if you don't like the automatic
sizing for scroll bars,
you can explicitly request
either the normal or small size.
So that's one of the things
we're going to be looking at.
And the other thing is that you
can use the small size if you wish.
But in general,
you need to make sure that you don't
just use these because they're available.
You need to have good reasons for them.
The larger size controls
are much more reasonable.
And if you can fit them
into your interface,
please do so,
even if it means making your
windows a little bit larger.
But if you do have specialized needs,
like to fit a whole bunch of
widgets on a pallet or some other
small bit of screen real estate,
go ahead and use the small
controls that we provide.
Now, to change the size of a control,
it's really straightforward.
You can use the set control data API.
I mentioned it this session,
the previous session.
You pass it a control.
You pass it the tag for the
data type you want to change.
In this case,
you say change the control size,
K control size tag,
and then you pass the size
that you're interested in.
K control size, normal, small, large,
or auto.
Not all controls support all sizes,
so be ready to handle errors.
I believe we have comments
in the header which say which
controls support which sizes.
But in general,
if you're good about handling errors,
you'll be just fine.
The other important thing to
note is right now these are
only available on Mac OS X.
CarbonLib 1.3 does not support
any of the control sizing stuff.
We're investigating what we would need
to do to bring that into CarbonLib,
but I can't make any promises about it.
This got brought up last
session in the Q&As,
but it bears repeating.
The Control Manager supports the
notion of an embedding hierarchy,
and we've done that since Mac OS 8.0.
It's been optional on the
traditional operating system,
including CarbonLib, but now on Mac OS X,
embedding is always on.
And this has certain interaction
side effects for your application.
Essentially,
hit testing and draw order might
not be exactly what you'd expect on
Mac OS X if your application does not
use the embedding hierarchy on Mac OS 9.
So, my suggestion to everyone
is always explicitly request
the embedding hierarchy.
You do it on 9, just so you can get the
embedding hierarchy,
and you do it on 10,
it's effectively a no-op because the
embedding hierarchy's already there,
and it's still totally legal to do that.
But make sure you explicitly
request the embedding hierarchy
and run your app on 9,
and get your behavior
straightened out on there,
and you should be able to
take that app then and put it
on 10 and see good behavior.
Create root control is generally
the way you turn on embedding.
Creating a root control for a window
switches on the embedding hierarchy.
That's not the only way you necessarily
can turn on the embedding hierarchy.
If you use the dialogue manager,
you can specify a DLGX resource,
which corresponds to your DLOG resource,
and there is a feature bit in
that DLGX resource that says,
"Please turn on the embedding
hierarchy for me." You can do the
same thing with alert resources.
Now, the reason we turned this on
automatically on Mac OS X is that
it not only allows us to really
simplify the Mac OS X code base,
and we basically had divergent
code on the traditional OS.
We got rid of one whole side of the
divergent code and divergent behaviors,
so that makes our maintenance
life a lot easier.
But it also allows us to add a
whole bunch of future enhancements.
Yesterday at the
Windows and menu session,
we talked about how transparent
sheets for Carbon were going to
be coming in a future release.
We wouldn't even be able to
do that unless the control
embedding was mandatory.
So future control management
enhancements are also going to be sort
of dependent on the embedding hierarchy.
Now, Carbon removed access to
a Windows control list.
The way controls were maintained in a
window on traditional OS was that there
was literally just a link list that hung
off a window where we kept each control.
We eliminated that for Carbon in
favor of people just embedding the
controls where they wanted them to.
Unfortunately, we heard a lot of feedback
from developers when they said,
"You know what?
We need the control list because
we're doing cool things with it.
We have an interface that we
literally want to move on the
fly from one window to another,
maybe via drag & drop.
It's got great performance
impact for us if you make us
create both hierarchies at once,
as we destroy one window
and put up another.
We'd really like a way to move
a control between windows,
so we gave it to you." Essentially,
we don't allow you to hack
the control list anymore,
but we allow an existing API,
the Embed Control API,
to take a control out of one window
and just embed it someplace else.
The only gotcha with respect
to all this is that you cannot
actually move the root control.
The root control,
once it's associated with a window,
is always stuck to that window.
But you can go ahead and move any
sub-controls you're interested in.
We've mentioned this
a ton of times again.
Carbon events permeate the toolbox.
The controls themselves are
actually implemented in terms
of Carbon events right now.
In fact, the
The messaging model for
control definitions is
inherently Carbon event based.
Now, we obviously still support
message based defprocs,
but we do this through a compatibility
layer where we intercept a Carbon event
coming towards a particular defproc.
We see it doesn't handle it,
we turn it into a control message
and route it off to the defproc.
But, we don't necessarily handle
direct messaging in the old
school way to the system controls.
What that means is if you have any
application code which is calling
send control message and trying to
make the system controls do things,
they probably won't work on Mac OS X.
You might get lucky for the short term,
because I know we still support
a few messages this way,
but ultimately we plan on removing
all support for send control message
to the system control definitions.
Now, generally speaking,
you shouldn't even need
send control message anyway.
We have high level control manager
APIs that let you do things
like drawing and hit testing
and whatever at a very high level.
So, you could probably just eliminate
your use of send control message
in favor of these other APIs.
Now, if you have custom controls,
you may not be planning on revving them
to support Carbon events anytime soon,
and you're using send
control message with them,
obviously, now.
You can continue to do so.
We're not going to eliminate
the send control message API.
We're just going to prevent
it from working with the
system control definitions.
But your custom CDEFs
will still work just fine.
So I want to go into a few of
the future enhancements we're
adding to the control manager.
For performance reasons,
drawing with Quick Draw right now
in the toolbox is a little bit slow,
because ultimately when we
render a particular widget,
we're going to draw with quarts.
And drawing with quarts means we need to
build the proper quarts port equivalent,
which is a CG context ref.
Building one of these is a little time
consuming and a little memory intensive.
And ideally, what we'd like to do
for a given draw cycle,
we would like to just create one context
and pass it to all the controls when
they draw such that each control now no
longer needs to create its own context.
This will save us a lot on
time and memory overhead.
Drawing with Quartz will also allow
you to get around one major missing
feature in the Appearance Manager.
Right now,
the Appearance Manager does not let
you draw pulsing default buttons.
There's no way to do it via the APIs.
Ultimately,
when we allow drawing through Quartz,
you will be able to draw pulsing default
buttons through the Appearance Manager.
Now yesterday we gave you a little taste
of what control drawing modes were.
Essentially,
we want to build some functionality
into the control manager that makes
it a lot more reasonable to work with.
Right now when you call
a control manager API,
you don't necessarily know
whether or not it's going to draw.
If the control is visible,
it draws for some APIs.
And on Mac OS X,
you notice that it draws if
you call set control bounds,
but on CarbonLib it doesn't draw.
And there's all sorts of
weird little nuances like that
that we've had historically.
And we want to offer a way that
lets you have more explicit control
of exactly when a control draws.
In fact, we want to get to a point where
controls don't really draw by default.
You can go configure a control
five times with five control
manager APIs and not draw until
you've done all that configuration.
And finally, at some later point,
the control manager
should be able to say,
"Well, you know what?
I know what controls are dirty,
so why don't I just go and redraw them?"
And this was all done initially to
allow us to support transparent sheets.
Which will be coming up in the future.
But it gave us a whole bunch
of these cool side effects,
and in the future we're going to
allow you to turn this stuff on
for your Windows and get all kinds
of cool performance benefits.
I'm going to switch gears a little
bit and start talking about the Doc.
A lot of applications
Need a new icon.
Right now,
your icons are probably 32 by 32,
and they look pretty miserable.
And with the Dock being so
prominent in the interface,
and the fact that the Dock
can display 128 by 128 icons,
you need to spend a lot of time
making your Dock icon look great.
But it may not be enough to just put
a great-looking icon in the Dock.
Some applications need to
put status in the Dock.
They need to--the best
example is Mail application.
Mail puts a little marker in
the Dock that says how many
messages you've got unread.
It's a really cool feature,
but at the same time,
you don't want to overdo it.
You shouldn't just animate
your application icon or badge
something on your application icon
just because the APIs are there.
You need to not be intrusive into
the user's visual space unless it's
going to be meaningful to them.
If you find an instance in your
application where animating
your icon would be useful,
there's a number of
different ways you can do it.
Probably the most straightforward way,
if you're used to doing this,
is to use the Dock application.
The most common way to do programming for
traditional Mac OS is to use Quick Draw.
And the way we allow this is through
the use of the begin and end QD context
for application Dock tile APIs.
These APIs give you a color graph
pointer that you can draw into,
and when you call end,
it ends up putting the
image into the Dock for you.
Now, Quick Draw, as you know,
does not support transparently
in the alpha channel properly.
And if you want your application
icon to have transparency,
you need to draw with quartz,
and you do that with a
similarly named begin and end C.
And then you can use CG context
for application Dock tile.
You call those, you draw with quartz,
you end the context,
it draws to the screen.
You can also do badging,
which is what Mail does.
And there's only, unfortunately,
a Quartz way of doing that.
But in order for badging
to work properly,
it needs to use alpha,
so that's why it's Quartz only.
We've got a couple APIs for that as well.
Now, all of these APIs have pretty good
documentation in the header itself.
They're in MacApplication.h.
We show you some ways you use them,
some of the pitfalls in there,
so I suggest you check those out.
Your minimized windows
also show up in the doc,
and therefore you might want to change
the icon that's used to represent them.
When a window is first
minimized and put into the Dock,
the Window Manager automatically
takes a snapshot of the entire window,
its structure, its content,
and everything,
scales it down to 128x128,
and puts that in the Dock.
If your application has
fairly simple needs,
and you just want to update the image
in the Dock based on your window's new
image contents while it's minimized,
you can do that with the
Update Collapse Window Dock tile.
If your application
has a minimized window,
and it's busy processing,
and you put some more
status in your window,
or you change some image slightly,
and you want it to be
reflected in the Dock,
just call Update Collapse
Window Dock tile on your window,
and the Window Manager will just do
the right thing for you automatically.
If you need more custom control,
we offer APIs for those as well.
Create and release QD context
for collapsed window doc tile.
And these APIs are all
documented in MacWindows.h.
And we're working with the
documentation people to get other
forms of documentation available.
But right now, I took a look at these
headers the other day,
and they're really, really good.
They explain a lot of
what you need to know.
Now to give you a more
concrete example of all this,
I would like to bring up David McLeod.
He can show you some of the details.
David?
Thanks.
Morning.
I wrote a small demo application,
if you could bring up-- right.
This session builds on the
material presented in Session 119,
providing details on Dock icon animation,
DataBrowser, Help Tags,
improved direct manipulation
of data with Drag & Drop,
and much more.
Learn how to make your
application "go the extra mile."
That's a little demo
application called Tyler.
And keep an eye on this guy down here.
That's the guy that's
going to get animated.
First,
I'm going to draw on it with Quick Draw.
I'm not a graphic artist or anything.
I didn't have anybody
make fancy art for me.
You can see that I had to erase
"I would have left behind the image,
otherwise I would have left
behind some remnants of the other
[Transcript missing]
Next, I'll show Quartz.
You can see it's the same drawing.
If you can see really up close on it,
it's all anti-aliased and stuff,
because Quartz is really nice.
That way you get it all for free.
There's also a transparency on here.
You can't really see it unless
I drag a window behind it.
You can see that that,
all that drawing is transparent.
You can see right through it,
see the window up there.
The next thing I'll show you here is
I'm going to add a tile to the badge.
I'm going to add a badge to the tile,
excuse me.
It's just my WWDC badge.
Again, I think that might break
some HI guidelines.
I just made it myself.
It's fairly simple.
You just make an image with
an alpha channel and you blast
it on there with an API call.
One gotcha here though is that you need
to clean the tile before you draw on it.
Because if you don't, the badge will just
overcomposite on top of itself.
I'll just do that a few times and draw.
You can see that its shadow has
just overcomposited over and over.
It's not much of a shadow anymore.
It's kind of a black blob, which is ugly.
The second last thing I'll
show you is Restore Tile.
Just bring it back to what the
application sets the icon in there.
The last thing that I'm going to show
you is something Guy talked about with
the collapsed window tile animation.
So I have a little demo window here.
Got a beautiful picture of someone.
It's a little dark though.
So we have some processing that
can happen to it to lighten it
so we can see his pretty mug.
We can actually minimize
this into the doc,
and you can see that the tile
continues to update itself,
so you can see how far
along the processing is.
Let's do it one more time, just for fun.
Let's do a whole bunch of them.
Good thing my head's not really that big.
Yay.
He's so pretty.
So you can see they're
all down there animating.
And you can also see that there's a whole
bunch of things down there animating,
and it's a little ugly.
So don't get crazy doing the animating.
It's just fun sometimes.
Next, I'll just show you some
of the code I used.
It was all very simple
and straightforward to do.
First,
you saw me do the QuickDraw animation.
You call in and you get a QD Context
for the application Doctile.
You keep a hold of the port and
you get to use it for a while.
I happen to do some erasing here.
You really do have to erase.
You can get the same overcompositing
problems with Quartz.
And if you don't erase
with the Quick Draw,
you'll end up with remnants of your
previous tile drawing on there.
I do a little bit of
drawing using QuickDraw.
Everybody knows how to do that,
probably better than I do.
And here's a gotcha.
When you request a context,
you always have to flush the context
before you finish with it because
the tile won't update until you get
some other update queue later on.
So don't forget to flush.
It's really important.
And lastly,
you've got to tell the doc that you're
finished with that context and you're
not going to be drawing in there anymore.
That's the quick draw way,
and you saw how it made everything opaque
and it just killed the transparency.
That's just no fun.
Very similar code to do the Quartz.
I begin the CG context right here.
I clear it out.
This particular clear though,
"maintains the transparency."
So I start out with something
completely transparent,
and I can start drawing on that.
I do the happy face drawing again,
and I happen to do a little bit
of transparent yellow in there,
and that's how you can see through it.
"CG Contexts are just like the
QD Contexts you get in the first one.
Don't forget to flush,
or else it won't update properly."
"Can't forget to flush." "And lastly,
you gotta tell it, 'Hey,
I'm finished with the context.'"
The badge is a little
bit more complicated,
and you require a CG image.
You say, "I have a CG image,
and I'm going to be
blasting it onto the tile.
I'm going to blit it on there."
There's a bit of a pitfall,
like I mentioned earlier,
where I showed you where the
badge overcomposited on itself
and its shadow was darkened.
So I actually restore the
tile just before I draw on it,
so I have a nice clean
tile to start with.
I make some PixMaps,
and there's a really nice call available
called "Create CG Image from PixMaps."
So you can take a PixMap that is an
image that you want to put on there,
another PixMap that is the
alpha mask that you want to use.
It makes a nice CG image for you to use.
Very convenient.
And lastly, just want to overlay that
image on top of the tile.
It's really straightforward.
The next part is restoring the Doctile.
It's very complicated,
so Guy wanted me to go through
the code line by line for you.
Here it is here, the one line.
Restore application Dock tile image.
Very straightforward, no parameters.
I think we can all manage to cut and
paste that one out of the header.
And the last one was the
collapsed Dock tile animation.
It was very straightforward.
All I did is I updated the window so that
you could see the processing happening.
And you just have to tell,
you just have to call the
API "update collapsed window
Dock tile" with a window pointer,
and it does all the work for you.
It just takes the image of the
window and sticks it into the tile.
So I do some image
processing before and after,
and just make that one call and
it does the animation for you.
The only gotcha there is you want
to make sure you update it one
final time when you're finished.
So there's some tricky code hiding up
here where I update it one last time.
But that's about it.
It was really easy to do tile animation.
Oh, one last thing.
This code is going to
be up on the website.
It's just going to be sample source
code for everybody to try out.
Thanks, David.
So that was cool.
One final note about the Doc stuff.
Again, I know you've probably heard
this about a dozen times.
Just because you can do this
doesn't mean you should do this.
Make sure that your application
and window icon animation is subtle
and use it only when necessary.
The last thing I want to see
personally is about ten applications
each spinning some little random
animation just because they can.
Not only is it visually distracting,
but it's just going to wreck
performance for the machine.
So do it only when it's necessary.
[Transcript missing]
All right, so switching gears back
to the Control Manager.
Control Manager supports
a lot of Carbon Events.
They're all documented in CarbonEvents.h.
We tell you what they're used for,
we tell you when they're sent,
we tell you what parameters
come along with them,
we tell you what the responsibility
of someone who handles them is.
This is a great way to
write custom def procs now.
This is only available
on Mac OS X right now,
but we're looking at making
Carbon event def procs available
in a future version of CarbonLib.
The best part about
Control Carbon Events is it also
allows application clients of controls,
whether they be custom controls
that you wrote or system
controls that Apple wrote,
it allows those application clients to
sort of override or augment the behavior
of a particular control definition.
All of the Control Carbon Events,
except for two that I'm
going to be mentioning today,
are of the KEVENT class control.
Just take a look in carbonevents.h and
it'll tell you all the details there.
Let's say you want to write a
Carbon event based control definition.
It's your first time you're doing this.
I'm going to take you
through step by step.
In order to do a
Carbon Event-based Toolbox object,
you need to register your
Toolbox object class.
And a Toolbox object class is
just an opaque wrapper around
the notion of a def proc.
You can think of it that way.
The way you create an object class is
by calling RegisterToolboxObjectClass.
You give it a name,
and you give it the Carbon event
handler for that defproc,
and you give it the list of events
that you're interested in handling.
The API hands you back a
Toolbox Object Class Ref.
Now, when you call createCustomControl,
you can pass in that
Toolbox Object Class Ref,
actually pass it in as part of
a control-def-spec structure.
But you pass that in
to createCustomControl,
and therefore the control manager says,
"Oh, you know what?
I know what defproc to create now.
I'm going to go create it."
When you call Create Custom Control,
you can also pass in an initialization
collection with all sorts of
initialization information that
your control definition might want.
Totally free form, totally up to you what
you want to put in there.
The Control Manager does support
some default things in this
initialization collection.
It will look for things
like a starting value,
a starting minimum,
whether or not the control is visible,
things like that.
This is all documented
in the header as well.
Let's say, however,
that you do all of your
control creation either via
New Control or Get New Control.
Or perhaps you want to write a shared
library version of a control that needs
to be used by third-party applications,
and all they use are
New Control and Get New Control.
In order to support
New Control and Get New Control,
you need to use the
Register Control Definition API.
I should probably go into a little bit of
background to make this make more sense.
When you call Create Custom Control,
you're essentially saying,
"Create this control
with this entry point.
I already know what the entry point is."
New Control and Get New Control operate
off this PROC ID model.
If you've done any toolbox
programming in the past,
you know what a PROC ID is.
Essentially,
it's just sort of a mangled resource
ID of where a defproc would have
lived on the traditional OS.
And what Register Control Definition
lets you do is it lets you take
a proc pointer-based defproc,
whether it's a toolbox object type,
or whether it's just a raw proc pointer,
and say,
"Associate it with this sort of virtual
resource ID." So now your clients can
call New Control and Get New Control and
actually instantiate versions of
your Carbon event-based defproc.
There's a couple basic
Carbon Events that just about every
DefProc is going to want to support.
And of course, those have to do with
initialization and disposal.
We send two different Carbon Events:
KEventControlInitialize.
This is the one where you initialize.
It, in the Carbon Event,
has the initialization collection that
you passed in to create Custom Control.
So you can extract that out,
start digging through there,
looking for your bits of information
that are important to you.
Your only responsibility for handling of
KEventControlInitialize is to make sure
you report your control's features back
out in the KEventParamsControlFeatures.
You do this so the control manager
knows what kind of things you support,
like whether or not you're an
embedder or various other things.
And of course,
also while handling initialization,
you want to allocate any instance
data or do any prep work that your
control definition might need to do.
And you can imagine how the dispose work.
You get the dispose event,
you dispose your stuff, and you're done.
It's pretty easy, right?
Now, if you want to be a
full-featured control definition,
you want to allow your clients to make
use of certain Control Manager APIs.
For instance,
if your clients want to determine what
the proper size of your control is,
given its current settings, like,
let's say an application
creates a static text control,
and they start out creating one that's
just 10 pixels wide and 10 pixels long,
just because it's the easiest
way for them to do it,
and then they shove some text in there.
Then they want to ask
the Control Manager,
"Hey, how big should you really be to
display all your text?" You would use
the GetControlBestRect API to do so.
In order for a control definition
to report the right thing,
it needs to listen to the
KEventControlGetOptimalBounds
Carbon event.
You handle this Carbon event by
examining your current state,
figuring out how big you should be,
and you can even include
a baseline offset.
This baseline offset allows
your clients to do things like
line up the text baselines for
two totally different widgets,
make things look right according to
the Aqua Human Interface guidelines.
Now, another API that you might
want to allow your clients to
support is GetControlRegion.
GetControlRegion allows your clients
to ask for any region relative to a
particular part code of your control,
as well as a couple
sort of meta part codes,
like the structure and the content part.
When the application
calls GetControlRegion,
we send your control definition,
a K-event control GetPartRegion.
And well, guess what?
It has the part in it that
the client is interested in,
and it's your responsibility to
figure out what the region is,
stuff that in the Carbon event,
say you handled it, and then you're done.
You'll probably want to handle
the K-control structure metapart
and the K-control content metapart
in addition to all the sort of
unique parts of your control.
And these will allow your
clients to determine the total
draw area of your control,
as well as the sort of
embeddable area of your control.
And likewise,
get and set control data is a free-form
way that clients can ask your control
for a certain piece of information.
It basically enables you to
provide information to clients
that the control manager does not
already have explicit support for.
For instance,
the disclosure triangle--that's a bad
example--of the static text control.
The static text control supports a
one-line mode or a two-line mode.
Well,
it doesn't really make sense to add a
control manager API that's called "set
control one-line mode" with a Boolean,
right?
You can just use set control data to say,
"Hey, static text,
I want you to be one-line or I want
you to be two-line." So this is a
very powerful thing for configuration
of complex custom controls.
And if you want to allow
your clients to use it,
you listen to the k-event control
get set data Carbon events.
Any control worth its salt
is probably going to draw,
right?
To do that, you listen to the kevent
control draw Carbon event.
And normally for message-based CDEFs
you always draw in the current port.
But for this Carbon event,
we actually pass you the port
that we want you to draw into.
And in fact,
we only optionally pass you this port.
If you see a port inside the
kevent control draw Carbon event,
draw into that port.
If you don't,
go ahead and draw into the current port.
And likewise,
if your control supports a sort of opaque
background that you need sub-controls
to be rendered on top of properly,
you want to listen to the kevent
control apply background and kevent
control apply text color Carbon events.
These give you a chance to set
up the background properly so
your sub-controls can erase.
Most controls track the mouse.
How do you do that?
Well, it's actually really simple
if you have a simple control.
If your control is something like
a push button where it pretty
much just has two visual states,
you know, the user's tracking on it,
the user's tracking off of it,
all you need to support is
K event control hit test.
This Carbon event is sent by the control
manager in a number of situations.
A client might be asking, "Hey,
what part of the control
am I over right now?" Well,
we'll send you the Carbon event for
that so you can tell the client.
But if your tracking needs are simple,
this hit test Carbon event
allows the control manager to
do the majority of work for you.
You simply respond with the part code
that the mouse currently is over.
And if you have simple needs,
the control manager will just
highlight and unhighlight you,
withdraw Carbon events as appropriate.
And if you have more
complex tracking needs,
you should listen to the K-Event
Control Track Carbon Event.
This is sort of the one-stop shopping,
high-level Carbon event where you
can do anything you need to do.
This Carbon event is sent to you
almost immediately after a client calls
handle control click or track control.
You've got full rain,
you can do custom tracking,
weird scroll bar behavior,
anything you want.
Now there's actually about a half a dozen
more tracking related Carbon events,
and they're honestly fairly complex,
and I'm not going to go
into the details here,
but I doubt you'll
really need to use them.
If you are a widget like a scroll
bar and you want the control manager
to sort of do its default thumb
behaviors and weird things like that,
you can actually take advantage of about
a half a dozen other Carbon events.
Those are all documented
in the header pretty well,
so take a look there.
If you want to support keyboard input,
the first thing you must do is
support the notion of focusing.
We talked about focusing before.
It basically says, "You know what?
My control is ready for keyboard input.
I'm where the keyboard input should
go." So in order to support that,
you need to listen to the K-Event
Control Set Focus Part Carbon Event.
There's a lot of
information in this slide,
but it's really all important.
When you get sent this event,
you're going to be told
which part to focus.
Now sometimes you might
be told to focus no part.
That means clear the focus
if you have it already.
Other times you might be told
a specific part to focus.
So you should go ahead and
focus that specific part.
Other times,
like when the user hits the Tab key
or Shift Tab key as they're tabbing
through your user interface,
we say focus the next part
or focus the previous part.
So you want to handle
those as appropriate.
Of course,
if you're not currently focused
and you receive the Carbon event
that says focus the next part,
you should focus to your first part.
And as you keep receiving
next part Carbon events,
keep focusing next part
until you get to the end.
And finally,
when you're at the last available
focusable part and you receive another
request to focus the next part,
just turn your focus off.
Of course, you do the reverse if the user
is asking for the previous part.
Now your one responsibility on
exit from this Carbon event is
to tell the Control Manager what
part is really focused.
This is so the Control Manager can
do certain smart things.
Just store your currently focused
part in the Kevent Param control
part of the Carbon event,
and that's all you really need to do.
You might optionally want
to support the Kevent
Control GetFocused part Carbon event.
In fact, this is probably...
Most of you will not need to support
this if you return the proper part
in K-Event Param control part.
But if you have very special needs,
you might want to take
advantage of this Carbon event.
It allows the control manager to request
sort of lazily what part is focused.
Oh, actually,
let's go back one more thing.
This becomes especially
important in the future.
One thing we want to do with
Mac OS X is allow keyboard navigability
across all the user interface.
And it's a little ways off, but
The only way to make that happen
for your custom controls is to
support these Carbon events.
You will not be able to make it happen
for controls that are message-based.
Now the cool thing is you can actually
have a message-based control that just
installs a few Carbon event handlers.
And this might be one of them
you want to take advantage of.
So I suggest checking this stuff out,
learning how it works,
because it will become very important
in the future if you want to have
a totally keyboard-navigable UI.
So once you've got the focus,
you want to accept keyboard input.
The best way to do that is to
listen to a Carbon Event that's
not part of the Control class.
This is actually part
of the Text Input class,
and it's a K-Event class, Text Input.
The Carbon Event specifically is K-Event
Text Input Unicode for Key Event.
It's a little cumbersome of a name,
but it's documented well in the header.
And essentially,
the Unicode character stream is stored
in a parameter of that Carbon Event.
You extract it,
you slap it into your control,
and you're pretty much all set.
Now the even cooler bit is
that keyboard events are routed
directly to the user focus.
Once you're focused, if you're doing
Carbon Event-savvy defprocs,
you don't need to worry about the
client calling handle_control_key.
It all just gets sent
there automatically.
There are several more events you might
or may not want to handle depending
on how complex your control is.
The first is K-Event
Control Activate and Deactivate.
These are sent when a client calls
Activate or Deactivate Control.
Now generally speaking,
most widgets will not need to
respond to these Carbon events.
These are only useful if you need to
change your control's internal state as
a result of activating or deactivating.
You don't need to worry about handling
this event if you only change your visual
state on activating and deactivating.
I guess the best example of
this is the Edit Text control.
When it receives this Carbon event,
it calls TE Activate, right,
because it needs to disable
the look of the edit field.
And it doesn't just do that
to get the visual look.
It needs to do that so that the
text services manager can make sure
to deactivate any TSM documents
and stuff of that nature.
But in general,
other controls like the push button,
they don't worry about it
because after this Carbon event
is sent to your control,
the control manager will
request to draw anyway,
so you'll be redrawn in
the proper visual state.
Now a lot of controls are
becoming more complex these days.
Case in point, the DataBrowser.
We'll talk more about the
DataBrowser a little bit later,
but as controls become more complex,
it becomes important to display a proper
cursor when you're over a control.
We're no longer at the
point where we know,
"All right, well,
we want an arrow over buttons
and just about everything.
Oh, except for the Edit Text Control,
which needs an insertion point." No,
now we're at the situation where,
"All right, if I'm over one of the column
headers in DataBrowser,
I need to display the
little Expando arrow cursor,
unless I'm all the way
expanded to one direction,
then I want to show the Expando
cursor that only points the
other direction." So we have a
Handle Control Set Cursor API,
which was introduced relatively recently,
and in order to take advantage of that,
you just listen to the
K Event Control Set Cursor Carbon Event.
We tell you where the mouse location is,
as well as what modifier keys are down,
and then you can look at your
control's internal data structures
and figure out what cursor to put up.
Likewise,
contextual menus are becoming more
important in the user interface.
We offer a Handle
Control Contextual Menu Click API.
And when the client calls this,
we send you a K-Event Control Contextual
Menu Click Carbon event.
Now the cool bit is these Carbon events
will be sent to your control definition
automatically if the default window
handler is installed on your window.
It means if you're very
Carbon event savvy,
your control definition can
just handle these Carbon events.
You don't need to worry about the
right API calls because the toolbox
is going to call them for you.
[Transcript missing]
If you have a large,
visually complex CDEF and you resize,
right now the control
manager says draw everything.
And if it's particularly
expensive for you to draw,
that can take a lot of time,
you see the lag,
maybe a flash on Mac OS 9,
and it just really isn't a good thing.
What we're going to start doing
in the future is allowing you to
tell us what region to update as a
result of one of these state changes.
So what will happen is someone will
call size control on your control,
and you will be able to put a region
into a parameter of the K event
control bounds change Carbon event
that tells the control manager,
"Look, just redraw this particular area,
that way it's not very expensive."
Now this stuff isn't in yet,
but it's one of the things that
we're sort of throwing in the control
compositing mode bucket that we've
been talking about a little bit.
And finally,
if you're using the Embed Control API to
move controls from one window to another,
we send a K event control owning
window change to CarbonEvent.
So you might want to react
to that appropriately.
There's a few others.
And these, actually,
DevProcs won't want to handle.
These are pretty much reserved
for the client of the control.
The first is kEventControlHit.
After the user clicks on a control
and the application calls track
control or handle control click,
and the click did successfully
end on that control,
we send out a
kEventControlHit Carbon event.
This will give your application a chance
to react to the control as appropriate.
If that control has a command
ID associated with it,
and the kEventControlHit
Carbon event was not handled,
we will send out a
kEventCommandProcess Carbon event,
first to the control,
and then ultimately through its
embedding hierarchy down to the window.
Now, the really cool thing about this
is you can build up an entire
user interface with a window and
a whole bunch of controls in it,
and let the default Carbon event handlers
track all the clicks on your controls and
let all the default processing happen.
And then at the window level,
you can install a kEventControlHit or
a kEventCommandProcess Carbon event
handler that listens to all the controls.
So you can have four control
hits and command processes,
four controls in that window.
So it sort of lets you
encapsulate all your logic code
into one place in a clean way.
Now, I've mentioned complex controls,
and right now there is no more
complex control than the DataBrowser.
The DataBrowser is our
list manager replacement,
essentially.
And we figured, well, if we're going to
replace the list manager,
we're going to need a new API.
Well, we don't want to make a new API,
so let's just leverage an existing API.
Well,
the Control Manager API was really rich,
so we decided to turn the
DataBrowser into a control.
And essentially,
DataBrowser is the list view
that you see in the Finder,
and it's the column view that you
see in a Navigation Services dialog.
It's totally customizable.
We support resizable columns.
You can change what's
displayed in a given column.
You get to control the
text that's displayed,
the icon that's displayed.
It supports text editing, drag and drop,
all kinds of stuff like that.
Like I said,
it's a system supply control definition.
You create it with
Create Data Browser Control.
Gives you back a normal control ref.
You can use all the normal
control manager APIs.
You can size control it,
you can move control it, you can hide it,
you can make it active, inactive.
But of course, a complex list needs a
whole new suite of APIs.
You can give it the right data,
configure it properly.
So there's a bunch of new
APIs in ControlDefinitions.h
to configure the Data Browser.
So we're not planning on
leaving the DataBrowser alone.
We need to improve it in several ways.
The version we shipped in
Mac OS X is pretty good.
There are some bugs in it, yeah, granted.
The version in CarbonLib is
lagging behind a little bit.
So there's definitely some
enhancements we want to make to it.
First off is speed.
We plan on speeding up the DataBrowser,
for one, through the control compositing
stuff I've been talking about,
and specifically by handling a K event
control bounds change Carbon event.
That way, when you're live
resizing a Finder window,
we don't repaint the
entire DataBrowser control.
And in fact, that's why live resizing a
Finder window is so darn slow.
So we're going to make
that a little bit faster.
I've fixed several critical
crashing bugs lately,
and they will show up in a
future operating system release.
There's still a bunch of
other bugs we know about.
We plan on fixing the major ones.
And I want to get as many of
those bug fixes into the version
of DataBrowser that ships with
CarbonLib 1.4 as possible.
And finally,
DataBrowser supports most of its
customization through proc pointers.
Proc pointers are a little bit
limiting in that you can't change
the parameter list they receive.
Once you've got a four
parameter proc pointer,
you're pretty much always stuck
with a four parameter proc pointer.
Well, Carbon events are sort of our
proc pointer replacements,
so we're going to integrate
them more with DataBrowser.
So you'll be able to do more
customization through Carbon events.
So, if you're going to support help
properly in your application,
there's several steps you need to take.
Probably the most basic one
is including the proper help
button in your application.
If you display standard alerts
from Create Standard Alert,
Standard Alert, Create Standard Sheet,
we're going to put the right
button in there for you.
But if you have custom needs,
either in a larger window or in
a dialog that you roll yourself,
you want to display
the proper help button.
Unfortunately,
you have to conditionalize your code to
make this work on both Mac OS 9 and 10.
On Aqua, we want you to use the
round button control.
Unfortunately,
you can only create a round
button control on Mac OS X.
On Mac OS X,
just call Create Round Button Control.
On Mac OS 9, however,
we don't have support for
the round button control.
And in fact, the Mac OS 9 Look is just a
plain bevel button control.
So call Create Bevel Button Control when
you're running on CarbonLib.
Now, to get the right help icon,
you can just use icon services.
Both of these control types support
totally custom behavior via icon refs.
So you call Get Icon Ref to get the
help icon associated with the control,
and that's pretty much all
you have to worry about.
Another step for supporting help is,
of course, Help Tags.
We showed it on the screen.
We showed it on the last slide.
Help Tags, you can think of those as
a balloon help replacement,
if you're used to the traditional of us.
But really,
they're just context-sensitive tool tips.
The cool part about Help Tags is that
they remain very brief for most cases.
As you hover over a particular button,
it should give you just a
very brief indication of what
that button's going to do.
But if you hold down the Control key,
the Help Tag actually expands to give
you a little bit more information.
That way, you can get that
information if you want it,
but it doesn't stand in your way and
block out the rest of the interface.
Help Tags also allow customizable
positioning relative to the
UI element that you're planning
on putting help up about.
And we have content guidelines in
the Aqua User Interface Guidelines,
I believe.
I believe there's a section in the back
that talks expressly about what sort
of help content is good help content,
and how much is too much,
and what is just the right amount.
So take a look at that.
You can implement Help Tags
in a number of ways.
The most straightforward way is to use
Interface Builder and its NIB support.
Any NIB that you build from Interface
Builder for a Carbon application
will allow you to specify help
information directly in that NIB.
So not only can you position everything,
but you can give it all the help content.
And then when you run that interface
with the Carbon Event Manager,
the Help Tags just come up automatically.
So that's the most straightforward way.
We also offer a programmatic interface,
and we even added a few APIs to let you
leverage existing Balloon Help content
that you might have for your dialogues.
Now while these APIs are available to
let you use the Balloon Help content,
I don't recommend using them,
not for any sort of
performance or technical issue,
but just because the guidelines for
Balloon content do not match up the
guidelines for Help Tag content.
In general,
Help Tag content is a little bit more
concise than the Balloon content.
But if you need a component
that's more precise,
you can use the Help Tag content.
crutch for the short term,
you can go ahead and use
the compatibility APIs.
So if you want to use the
programmatic interface,
there's actually three
different ways you can do it.
You can associate static help
content with an individual control
window or menu by using these
HMsetControlWindowOrMenuHelpContent APIs.
You can go back and change
the help content later,
but essentially, once you've set it,
the CarbonEvent subsystem,
which actually will run for your
WaitNextEvent-based application,
will put up the help content
automatically based on the
control's current position.
Now if you need a little bit more control
over when your content is displayed,
you can use a certain callback mechanism.
We allow a callback to be associated
for controls and windows and menu items,
such that you can display the help tag,
or you can generate the help tag's
information dynamically on the fly.
This might be useful for a
lot of frameworks out there.
And finally,
if that doesn't even serve your needs,
you can just put up any arbitrary
help tag in any position you
want by calling HMDisplayTag.
You provide the right hot
rectangle and the right help data.
And then you just put it up
on screen and there you go.
Now unfortunately,
tearing down the help tags
is a little cumbersome.
We forgot the remove tag API.
So right now what you have to do--yeah,
I know, we're lame sometimes.
Right now what you have to do is turn off
help tags to make the help tag go away,
and then turn help tags back on.
Kind of a crummy workaround,
but it'll do the trick.
Now on the Drag Manager front,
most of the stuff's the same,
although there's a few gotchas.
The drag highlight color
is changed under Aqua.
It's no longer the,
I think it was a blue for Platinum.
We now have a theme brush to
allow you to draw the proper
Aqua-savvy drag highlight.
And of course,
if we ever decide to change the drag
highlight and you continue using
the Set Theme Background API with
the right brush,
you'll keep getting the right look.
In fact, we might even change the drag
highlight depending on whether
you're in Aqua or Graphite.
So use these APIs to get the right color
and you'll always have the right look.
As was pointed out yesterday
in one of the sessions,
Drop Rocks for Drag Manager don't
work anymore on Mac OS X.
The way you do this on Mac OS X is
actually through the Set Drag Image API.
Set Drag Image is actually callable
repeatedly during the drag,
so you can alter your drag
image as the drag is moving
along the screen if you want to.
So we actually get questions
about cursors quite a bit.
The HI guidelines talk
about it quite a bit,
but there's sort of one main gotcha
that you need to worry about.
Essentially, the guidelines say this:
If you're going to be busy
for less than two seconds,
just put up a watch cursor.
If you're going to be busy
for more than ten seconds,
put up some kind of progress dialogue
or spinning arrows or something to let
the user know you're going to be busy.
But unfortunately,
there's this weird window of opportunity
between two seconds and ten seconds.
And the reason it's a weird window is
because the system will automatically
put up the spinning wait cursor for your
application if your application is not
responsive to events for two seconds.
So if you get into some long
processing loop that goes
beyond the two-second threshold,
up comes the spinning cursor,
which we like to call the
spinning cursor of death.
You don't want to rely on this cursor
for your busy needs because of why we
call it the spinning cursor of death.
Generally speaking, this cursor should be
interpreted by the user as,
"Wow, this app is really hung.
Maybe I want to try this out."
You don't want to force quit it.
Or, "This app is really in a bad state."
So if you start relying on the system's
spinning wait cursor for your busy needs,
the user is going to think your
application is actually hung and
might force quit you prematurely.
So what I would suggest doing
is if you're going to do any
busy processing that's going
to take more than two seconds,
make sure you put up some kind
of mode-less dialogue or spinning
arrows to let the user know
it's going to take a while.
And continue processing events as
normal to allow the user to get
access to the rest of your interface.
So get out there.
Go ship your applications.
I'm sick of using classic apps.
Come on.
Carbon events are the way to do this.
Carbon events permeate
the entire toolbox.
You can take advantage of all
sorts of new toolbox functionality.
We've talked about it in
four different sessions.
You can use Carbon events
to adopt sheets,
Carbon events to do cool
things with your controls,
things with the windows.
You can use this as the sort of
patching mechanism for Mac OS X to
alter the toolbox behavior.
Take advantage of the dock when it
makes sense for your applications.
Don't go overboard with it,
but make sure if you've got a
really great way to give the user
a little bit more information
by changing your dock's icon,
great, do it.
And as John Galenzi said
in his session yesterday,
Aqua gives you the chance
to go and stand out.
The playing field's leveled.
A lot of applications are trying
to make the most out of Aqua.
This is your chance to go and beat
all your competitors and get a great
looking Aqua interface and make
your application best of class.
So with that,
to go through some roadmap and Q&A,
I'd like to bring back up John Galenzi.
Thanks.
Let's see, the roadmap.
The first one, 119,
we just had that earlier this morning.
So if you weren't here,
you got to watch it on DVD.
Designing Aqua Icons,
go to that one on Friday.
Tomorrow morning here
in this hall at 10:30,
it's going to be a great session.
Apple Help, again,
we've talked through all of these,
so I won't go into great detail.
Anything new here?
Nope, all this stuff happened.
No, no, feedback for him.
Friday, tomorrow.
Oh yes,
feedback on the high-level toolbox,
correct.
Give us your feedback as to what
you want added to the high-level
toolbox or Carbon functionality
to get a really great user
experience with your product on 10.
There's my contact info if you
need anything added to the system,
or you think we're missing something,
or something's not working
the way you want it to work,
please contact me.
Or if you have questions about
creating a great application on X,
feel free to send me an email
and work with me to get your
app revised for Mac OS X.